EDU-19083 feat(release note): add new release note about checkout api (#2898)
vtexdocs/dev-portal-content: docs/release-notes/2026-07-28-new-split-cart-item-endpoint-in-the-checkout-api.md

---
title: "New Split cart item endpoint in the Checkout API"
slug: "2026-07-28-new-split-cart-item-endpoint-in-the-checkout-api"
type: "added"
createdAt: "2026-07-28T00:00:00.000Z"
updatedAt: "2026-07-28T00:00:00.000Z"
excerpt: "A new Checkout API endpoint lets you split a single cart item into multiple items, distributing its current quantity among them."
---

> The [Checkout API](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/api-reference/checkout-api) now has a new [Split a cart item](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/api-reference/checkout-api#post-/api/checkout/pub/orderForm/-orderFormId-/items/-itemUniqueId-/split) endpoint, which splits a single item in a cart into multiple items, distributing its current quantity among them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Checkout API](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/api-reference/checkout-api) now includes a new [Split a cart item](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/api-reference/checkout-api#post-/api/checkout/pub/orderForm/-orderFormId-/items/-itemUniqueId-/split) endpoint, which splits a single item in a cart into multiple items, distributing its current quantity among them. For example, this allows different shipping or fulfillment rules to be applied to portions of the same SKU.
```

Reviewer: Pode ignorar o exemplo caso não faça sentido aqui.
